Hi, folks. Thank you. So I'm Amelia McNamara. I tweet at AmeliaMN and I just tweeted out
a link to these slides if you want to follow along. There's lots of references and links
there. So the most important thing that you need to get away from my talk is that the
dress has pockets. But I had a few other things that I wanted to say about how I thought
this project sort of related to open source development. So I have some lessons learned.
So one is to build on existing resources. I used hex stickers from RStudio mainly. These
are licensed with the CC0 license. So I was able to use them and I found hexes from a
few other sources. And here's the list. It was sort of arbitrarily chosen. And then you
need to use your skills. So once I had the hex stickers, I needed to array them in such
a way that it made a pattern that I could have printed on fabric. And you may not know
this about me, but I went to design school for a year. So I know how to use Adobe Illustrator.
And so I spent lots of time painstakingly moving these images around so that the left
hand side lined up perfectly with the right hand side and the top with the bottom. And
then I was able to upload this image to the website Spoonflower and get some custom fabric
sewn. And then the other skill that I used is that I know how to sew. And if you don't
sew, you might not know that there's a difference between two kinds of fabric. There's woven
fabric and knit fabric. Woven fabric is what like a regular button down shirt would be
made out of. It's not stretchy. It's not as comfortable. And you can sew it on a regular
sewing machine. Knit fabric is what they make T-shirts out of. It's stretchy. It's
comfy. It feels like you're wearing pajamas. But you need some special tools or skills
to sew it. So if you're going to work with woven material, you probably want to use a
regular sewing machine, which has one thing of thread and a single needle. If you are
going to work with knit fabric, you probably need a serger or an overlock machine.
And then I found that this quote, which I can't find the source for, but I remember
Hadley Wickham saying something like, once you have the data in the right format, the
visualization is trivial. I found that once I had the pieces of the dress cut out, sewing
the dress was trivial. So getting everything so that it was right side up and was going
to line up nicely, that was the hardest part. And then I was able to just put it together.
If you're using a serger, you use that to make seams. And if you look at the inside
of a T-shirt, like the RStudio Conf T-shirt, it looks like a nice bound edge. And then
I've got a picture of the seam from my dress there as well. The reason why it looks so
nice is the serger has a knife as part of it. So as you run the material through, it
cuts off the excess and then it binds it all together. This works for the inside seams
and to put pieces together, but it does not work for hems. So if you look at a professionally
made knit garment, like the RStudio Conf T-shirt, it has been used, they've used a cover stitch
machine or a cover hem machine to put it together. I don't have access to a cover hem machine,
so I had to do the hems on my regular sewing machine with twin needles. It didn't turn
out as nice as I would have liked.
And the next lesson is to document your work. I tweeted about this project once I had done
it and I was glad to have some beautiful photos taken by my best friend, who calls herself
my Instagram husband. Then I also blogged about this project. So if you want to know
more about how I did it, you can go find that on my blog. And then you need to also share
your work. So I put the Adobe Illustrator file up on GitHub as well as the JPEG. So
if you want to download it, modify it, upload it to Spoonflower and make your own creation,
you can. You can also just go to Spoonflower and I sell the material there. You could get
it printed on a woven fabric, like a cotton or a canvas, and many people have done this.
So I started a thread on Twitter, which is a bunch of people who have made things. Some
of these people are here and I think they are amazing. If you're not as crafty, but
you want some stuff like this for your own home, you could go on Spoonflower and they
sell like a bedspread with the hexes all over it and a tablecloth. And again, people have
purchased some of these things. You could go to Redbubble, they have some clothes, although
not as nice as my custom dress, obviously. Zazzle has things like tote bags and sneakers.
Someone bought the sneakers. I get like a dollar kickback when you buy something like
this. So there's links in the slideshow. And then the last lesson is that you should leverage
your community. So I just wanted to give a shout out to Danny Kaplan. He was the one
who told me that I shouldn't make all the hexes at full opacity, that it would be more
interesting if many of them were lighter colored. My mom, who taught me how to sew, let me use
her serger and also reminded me about pockets on dresses. And then my best friend, Alex,
who took all the beautiful photos. Thanks.